Tutorial: Building a Next.js cookie banner (#6315)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/nextjs-cookie-banner.md

---
title: Building a Next.js cookie consent banner
date: 2023-07-13
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
featuredImage: ../images/tutorials/banners/nextjs-analytics.png
tags: ['configuration']
---

> To ensure compliance with privacy regulations like GDPR, you might need to ask for content from users do tracking and use cookies. PostHog has tools to help you opt users in and out of this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure compliance with privacy regulations like GDPR, you may need to ask for content from users to track them using cookies. PostHog has tools to help you give users the ability to opt-in, or out. 
```

In this tutorial, we build a basic Next.js app, set up PostHog, build a cookie consent banner, and connect it to PostHog’s tracking and cookie management.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> Don't want cookies? Here's [how to use PostHog without cookie banners](/tutorials/cookieless-tracking).

```

## Create a Next.js app and add PostHog

First, once [Node is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/), create a Next.js app. Run the command below, select **No** for TypeScript, **Yes** for `use app router`, and the defaults for every other option.

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest cookie-banner
```

To add PostHog to our app, go into your `app` folder and create a `providers.js` file. Here we create a client-side PostHog initialization using the project API key and instance address (you  get them from your [project settings](https://app.posthog.com/project/settings)). Make sure to include the`use client` directive as well as a check for the window as initializing PostHog needs to happen on the client-side. Altogether, this looks like this:

```js
// app/providers.js
'use client'
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'
if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
    api_host: '<ph_instance_address>'
  })
}
export function PHProvider({ children }) {
  return <PostHogProvider client={posthog}>{children}</PostHogProvider>
}
```

> Once created, we can then import the `PHProvider` component from the`provider.js` file in our `app/layout.js` file, and wrap our app in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can then import the `PHProvider` component from the`provider.js` file in our `app/layout.js` file, and wrap our app in it.
```

```js
// app/layout.js
import { PHProvider } from './providers'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <PHProvider>
        <body>{children}</body>
      </PHProvider>
    </html>
  )
}
```

> After setting this up and running `npm run dev`, PostHog starts autocapturing events, but a PostHog-related cookie is set for the user without their consent. To help privacy compliance, we will set up a cookie consent banner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setting this up and running `npm run dev`, PostHog starts autocapturing events, but a PostHog-related cookie is set for the user without their consent. So, let's set up a cookie consent banner!
```

![Cookie set](../images/tutorials/nextjs-cookie-banner/cookie.png)

> ## Creating our cookie banner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a cookie banner
```
